## Adding your page to the website
1. Begin by cloning the repository to your local computer (git must be first installed at https://github.com/git-guides/install-git). You can do this by clicking the green `<> code` button above, copying the URL to your clipboard, and then executing `git clone link` in the terminal in which you paste the link in place of the word `link` in your desired local directory.
2. In the terminal, travel to the website directory. Remain there for the rest of the instructions. Create a new branch by executing `git checkout -b your_name_branch` in the terminal. The rest of the steps can either be carried out in a text editor (recommended) or directly in the terminal.
3. Add your name to `members.txt` under the appropriate category in alphabetic order by last name. Type your name _exactly_ how you would like it to show up in the directory.
4. Copy `members/example_student.md` to ` members/your_name.md`, where `your_name` is the name you wrote in (3), but lowercase and with '_' instead of spaces. 
5. Fill out `members/your_name.md`! Make sure to replace all instances of `example student` with your name. 
6. Add a professional photo (preferably square aspect ratio) at `assets/img/your_name.png`. This can be done manually on the computer desktop or by copying the photo over to `assets/img/your_name.png` on your terminal.
7. Add any extra photos (research, hobbies, etc.) at `assets/img/your_name_#.png`, where `#` is a number 1-3. If you choose not to do this, comment out the table in `members/your_name.md`.
8. Run `make_member_page.py` with Python and check that there are no errors.
9. Preview your webpage by calling `bundle install; bundle exec jekyll serve`.
    9a. This step may not work if you do not have _Jekyll_ installed correctly or installed in general on your computer. To fix this, the first step is to install _Ruby_ through a version manager (rbenv is recommended). Directions on how to do so can be found at https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/. Once it is installed, restart your terminal and return to the website directory. The second step is to run `gem install jekyll`, and the problem will be solved.
    9b. Another reason this step may not work is because your version of _Ruby_ is not compatible with the bundler that generated the _Gemfile.loc_ file (`1.17.2`). Begin by seeing if this is the issue by executing `ruby -v` in the terminal. If any number is displayed that is higher than 2.6.10, then an older version of _Ruby_ must be downloaded. Do this by executing `rbenv install 2.6.10`, then `rbenv global 2.6.10`, and finally `ruby -v` to verify that version 2.6.10 of _Ruby_ is now installed.
    9c. Once the command is successfully ran, copy and paste the provided URL into your browser and verify everything on the website is how you want it to look.
10. Commit your branch and push it to the repository with `git add *; git commit -m "Making a page for your name"; git push origin your_name_branch`, in which you replace `your_name` with the name you used to create the branch in (2).
11. Create a pull request on `https://github.com/cersonsky-lab/website/pulls` and check that all tests run.
12. Request one of your group members and Rosy (@rosecers) as a reviewer.    
